State variables are permanently stored in contract storage. This means they're written to the Ethereum blockchain.


Unsigned Integers: uint
The uint data type is an unsigned integer, meaning its value must be non-negative. There's also an int data type for signed integers.

Note: In Solidity, uint is actually an alias for uint256, a 256-bit unsigned integer. You can declare uints with less bits — uint8, uint16, uint32, etc.. But in general you want to simply use uint except in specific cases, which we'll talk about in later lessons.

Solidity also supports an exponential operator (i.e. "x to the power of y", x^y);

struct ->---------------

Sometimes you need a more complex data type. For this, Solidity provides structs:

struct Person {
  uint age;
  string name;
}
// create a New Person:
Person satoshi = Person(172, "Satoshi");

// Add that person to the Array:
people.push(satoshi);

//same
people.push(Person(16, "Vitalik"));

Structs allow you to create more complicated data types that have multiple properties.
Note that we just introduced a new type, string. Strings are used for arbitrary-length UTF-8 data. Ex. string greeting = "Hello world!"

-----------------------

Arrays in Solidity

There are two types of arrays in Solidity: fixed arrays and dynamic arrays.

// Array with a fixed length of 2 elements:
uint[2] fixedArray;
// another fixed Array, can contain 5 strings:
string[5] stringArray;
// a dynamic Array - has no fixed size, can keep growing:
uint[] dynamicArray;


we can also create array of structs here(It can we used as a data base for your contract.)

Person[] people; // dynamic Array, we can keep adding to it.

here Person is struct data type..

we can define array as a public so other contract can get the value but can't write to it.

syntax->
Person[] public people;

----------------------------

functions Declarations

function eatHamburgers(string memory _name, uint _amount) public {

}
In Solidity, functions are public by default. This means anyone (or any other contract) can call your contract's function and execute its code.

We're also providing instructions about where the _name variable should be stored- in memory. This is required for all reference types such as arrays, structs, mappings, and strings.

What is a reference type you ask?

Well, there are two ways in which you can pass an argument to a Solidity function:

By value, which means that the Solidity compiler creates a new copy of the parameter's value and passes it to your function. This allows your function to modify the value without worrying that the value of the initial parameter gets changed.

By reference, which means that your function is called with a... reference to the original variable. Thus, if your function changes the value of the variable it receives, the value of the original variable gets changed.


------------------

Keccak256 and Typecasting

Ethereum has the hash function keccak256 built in, which is a version of SHA3. A hash function basically maps an input into a random 256-bit hexadecimal number. A slight change in the input will cause a large change in the hash.

Also important, keccak256 expects a single parameter of type bytes. This means that we have to "pack" any parameters before calling keccak256.

example :
//6e91ec6b618bb462a4a6ee5aa2cb0e9cf30f7a052bb467b0ba58b8748c00d2e5
keccak256(abi.encodePacked("aaaab"));
//b1f078126895a1424524de5321b339ab00408010b7cf0e6ed451514981e58aa9
keccak256(abi.encodePacked("aaaac"));

Note: Secure random-number generation in blockchain is a very difficult problem.

-----------------

Events 

Events are a way for your contract to communicate that something happened on the blockchain to your app front-end, which can be 'listening' for certain events and take action when they happen.


// declare the event
event IntegersAdded(uint x, uint y, uint result);

function add(uint _x, uint _y) public returns (uint) {
  uint result = _x + _y;
  // fire an event to let the app know the function was called:
  emit IntegersAdded(_x, _y, result);
  return result;
}

Your app front-end could then listen for the event. A JavaScript implementation would look something like:

//listing to the event.

YourContract.IntegersAdded(function(error, result) {
  // do something with result
})
------------------
Note *
array.push() returns the new length of the array.

-----------------

web3.js

Ethereum has a JavaScript library called Web3.js.

example how to intract with front end and contract..

// Here's how we would access our contract:
var abi = /* abi generated by the compiler */
var ZombieFactoryContract = web3.eth.contract(abi)
var contractAddress = /* our contract address on Ethereum after deploying */
var ZombieFactory = ZombieFactoryContract.at(contractAddress)
// `ZombieFactory` has access to our contract's public functions and events

// some sort of event listener to take the text input:
$("#ourButton").click(function(e) {
  var name = $("#nameInput").val()
  // Call our contract's `createRandomZombie` function:
  ZombieFactory.createRandomZombie(name)
})

// Listen for the `NewZombie` event, and update the UI
var event = ZombieFactory.NewZombie(function(error, result) {
  if (error) return
  generateZombie(result.zombieId, result.name, result.dna)
})

// take the Zombie dna, and update our image
function generateZombie(id, name, dna) {
  let dnaStr = String(dna)
  // pad DNA with leading zeroes if it's less than 16 characters
  while (dnaStr.length < 16)
    dnaStr = "0" + dnaStr

  let zombieDetails = {
    // first 2 digits make up the head. We have 7 possible heads, so % 7
    // to get a number 0 - 6, then add 1 to make it 1 - 7. Then we have 7
    // image files named "head1.png" through "head7.png" we load based on
    // this number:
    headChoice: dnaStr.substring(0, 2) % 7 + 1,
    // 2nd 2 digits make up the eyes, 11 variations:
    eyeChoice: dnaStr.substring(2, 4) % 11 + 1,
    // 6 variations of shirts:
    shirtChoice: dnaStr.substring(4, 6) % 6 + 1,
    // last 6 digits control color. Updated using CSS filter: hue-rotate
    // which has 360 degrees:
    skinColorChoice: parseInt(dnaStr.substring(6, 8) / 100 * 360),
    eyeColorChoice: parseInt(dnaStr.substring(8, 10) / 100 * 360),
    clothesColorChoice: parseInt(dnaStr.substring(10, 12) / 100 * 360),
    zombieName: name,
    zombieDescription: "A Level 1 CryptoZombie",
  }
  return zombieDetails
}

*********************** XXXXXXXX Level 2 ****************************

Mapping and adresses

Addresses
The Ethereum blockchain is made up of accounts, which you can think of like bank accounts. An account has a balance of Ether (the currency used on the Ethereum blockchain), and you can send and receive Ether payments to other accounts, just like your bank account can wire transfer money to other bank accounts.

Each account has an address, which you can think of like a bank account number. It's a unique identifier that points to that account, and it looks like this:

0x0cE446255506E92DF41614C46F1d6df9Cc969183

(This address belongs to the CryptoZombies team. If you're enjoying CryptoZombies, you can send us some Ether! 😉 )

We'll get into the nitty gritty of addresses in a later lesson, but for now you only need to understand that an address is owned by a specific user (or a smart contract).

So we can use it as a unique ID for ownership of our zombies. When a user creates new zombies by interacting with our app, we'll set ownership of those zombies to the Ethereum address that called the function.


Mappings
 Mappings are another way of storing organized data in Solidity.

Defining a mapping looks like this:

// For a financial app, storing a uint that holds the user's account balance:
mapping (address => uint) public accountBalance;

// Or could be used to store / lookup usernames based on userId
mapping (uint => string) userIdToName;

A mapping is essentially a key-value store for storing and looking up data. In the first example, the key is an address and the value is a uint, and in the second example the key is a uint and the value a string.

............

Msg.sender 

msg.sender
In Solidity, there are certain global variables that are available to all functions. One of these is msg.sender, which refers to the address of the person (or smart contract) who called the current function.

Note: In Solidity, function execution always needs to start with an external caller. A contract will just sit on the blockchain doing nothing until someone calls one of its functions. So there will always be a msg.sender.

example.

mapping (address => uint) favoriteNumber;

function setMyNumber(uint _myNumber) public {
  // Update our `favoriteNumber` mapping to store `_myNumber` under `msg.sender`
  favoriteNumber[msg.sender] = _myNumber;
  // ^ The syntax for storing data in a mapping is just like with arrays
}

function whatIsMyNumber() public view returns (uint) {
  // Retrieve the value stored in the sender's address
  // Will be `0` if the sender hasn't called `setMyNumber` yet
  return favoriteNumber[msg.sender];
}

................

Import

When you have multiple files and you want to import one file into another, Solidity uses the import keyword:

import "./someothercontract.sol";

contract newContract is SomeOtherContract {

}

----------------

Storage vs Memory

In Solidity, there are two locations you can store variables — in storage and in memory.

Storage refers to variables stored permanently on the blockchain. Memory variables are temporary, and are erased between external function calls to your contract. Think of it like your computer's hard disk vs RAM.

Most of the time you don't need to use these keywords because Solidity handles them by default. State variables (variables declared outside of functions) are by default storage and written permanently to the blockchain, while variables declared inside functions are memory and will disappear when the function call ends.

However, there are times when you do need to use these keywords, namely when dealing with structs and arrays within functions:

Example :-

contract SandwichFactory {
  struct Sandwich {
    string name;
    string status;
  }

  Sandwich[] sandwiches;

  function eatSandwich(uint _index) public {
    // Sandwich mySandwich = sandwiches[_index];

    // ^ Seems pretty straightforward, but solidity will give you a warning
    // telling you that you should explicitly declare `storage` or `memory` here.

    // So instead, you should declare with the `storage` keyword, like:
    Sandwich storage mySandwich = sandwiches[_index];
    // ...in which case `mySandwich` is a pointer to `sandwiches[_index]`
    // in storage, and...
    mySandwich.status = "Eaten!";
    // ...this will permanently change `sandwiches[_index]` on the blockchain.

    // If you just want a copy, you can use `memory`:
    Sandwich memory anotherSandwich = sandwiches[_index + 1];
    // ...in which case `anotherSandwich` will simply be a copy of the
    // data in memory, and...
    anotherSandwich.status = "Eaten!";
    // ...will just modify the temporary variable and have no effect
    // on `sandwiches[_index + 1]`. But you can do this:
    sandwiches[_index + 1] = anotherSandwich;
    // ...if you want to copy the changes back into blockchain storage.
  }
}

--------------------

More on function visibility

The issue is we tried calling the _createZombie function from within ZombieFeeding, but _createZombie is a private function inside ZombieFactory. This means none of the contracts that inherit from ZombieFactory can access it.

private function calling from diffrnt contract which inherit that contract. would'nt be able to call that function.


Internal and External 

In addition to public and private, Solidity has two more types of visibility for functions: internal and external.

internal is the same as private, except that it's also accessible to contracts that inherit from this contract. (Hey, that sounds like what we want here!).

external is similar to public, except that these functions can ONLY be called outside the contract — they can't be called by other functions inside that contract. We'll talk about why you might want to use external vs public later.

----------------------

in Solidity you can return more than one value from a function.

-----------------------

Let's look at an example of interacting with our deployed contract using JavaScript and web3.js:

var abi = /* abi generated by the compiler */
var ZombieFeedingContract = web3.eth.contract(abi)
var contractAddress = /* our contract address on Ethereum after deploying */
var ZombieFeeding = ZombieFeedingContract.at(contractAddress)

// Assuming we have our zombie's ID and the kitty ID we want to attack
let zombieId = 1;
let kittyId = 1;

// To get the CryptoKitty's image, we need to query their web API. This
// information isn't stored on the blockchain, just their webserver.
// If everything was stored on a blockchain, we wouldn't have to worry
// about the server going down, them changing their API, or the company
// blocking us from loading their assets if they don't like our zombie game ;)
let apiUrl = "https://api.cryptokitties.co/kitties/" + kittyId
$.get(apiUrl, function(data) {
  let imgUrl = data.image_url
  // do something to display the image
})

// When the user clicks on a kitty:
$(".kittyImage").click(function(e) {
  // Call our contract's `feedOnKitty` method
  ZombieFeeding.feedOnKitty(zombieId, kittyId)
})

// Listen for a NewZombie event from our contract so we can display it:
ZombieFactory.NewZombie(function(error, result) {
  if (error) return
  // This function will display the zombie, like in lesson 1:
  generateZombie(result.zombieId, result.name, result.dna)
})

*******************Level 3 Advanced solidity Concepts ****************************

we will learn contract ownership, gas costs, code optimization, and security. in this Chapter.

Function Modifiers

A function modifier looks just like a function, but uses the keyword modifier instead of the keyword function. And it can't be called directly like a function can — instead we can attach the modifier's name at the end of a function definition to change that function's behavior.

---------------------
Gas---

Gas — the fuel Ethereum DApps run on
In Solidity, your users have to pay every time they execute a function on your DApp using a currency called gas. Users buy gas with Ether (the currency on Ethereum), so your users have to spend ETH in order to execute functions on your DApp.

How much gas is required to execute a function depends on how complex that function's logic is. Each individual operation has a gas cost based roughly on how much computing resources will be required to perform that operation (e.g. writing to storage is much more expensive than adding two integers). The total gas cost of your function is the sum of the gas costs of all its individual operations.

Because running functions costs real money for your users, code optimization is much more important in Ethereum than in other programming languages. If your code is sloppy, your users are going to have to pay a premium to execute your functions — and this could add up to millions of dollars in unnecessary fees across thousands of users.

Why is gas necessary?

Ethereum is like a big, slow, but extremely secure computer. When you execute a function, every single node on the network needs to run that same function to verify its output — thousands of nodes verifying every function execution is what makes Ethereum decentralized, and its data immutable and censorship-resistant.

The creators of Ethereum wanted to make sure someone couldn't clog up the network with an infinite loop, or hog all the network resources with really intensive computations. So they made it so transactions aren't free, and users have to pay for computation time as well as storage.

Note: This isn't necessarily true for other blockchain, like the ones the CryptoZombies authors are building at Loom Network. It probably won't ever make sense to run a game like World of Warcraft directly on the Ethereum mainnet — the gas costs would be prohibitively expensive. But it could run on a blockchain with a different consensus algorithm. We'll talk more about what types of DApps you would want to deploy on Loom vs the Ethereum mainnet in a future lesson.


---------------------

Time units


Solidity provides some native units for dealing with time.

The variable now will return the current unix timestamp of the latest block (the number of seconds that have passed since January 1st 1970). The unix time as I write this is 1515527488.

Note: Unix time is traditionally stored in a 32-bit number. This will lead to the "Year 2038" problem, when 32-bit unix timestamps will overflow and break a lot of legacy systems. So if we wanted our DApp to keep running 20 years from now, we could use a 64-bit number instead — but our users would have to spend more gas to use our DApp in the meantime. Design decisions!

Solidity also contains the time units seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks and years. These will convert to a uint of the number of seconds in that length of time. So 1 minutes is 60, 1 hours is 3600 (60 seconds x 60 minutes), 1 days is 86400 (24 hours x 60 minutes x 60 seconds), etc.

Here's an example of how these time units can be useful:

Example ---

uint lastUpdated;

// Set `lastUpdated` to `now`
function updateTimestamp() public {
  lastUpdated = now;
}

// Will return `true` if 5 minutes have passed since `updateTimestamp` was 
// called, `false` if 5 minutes have not passed
function fiveMinutesHavePassed() public view returns (bool) {
  return (now >= (lastUpdated + 5 minutes));
}


-------------------------

View functions don't cost gas

view functions don't cost any gas when they're called externally by a user.

This is because view functions don't actually change anything on the blockchain – they only read the data. So marking a function with view tells web3.js that it only needs to query your local Ethereum node to run the function, and it doesn't actually have to create a transaction on the blockchain (which would need to be run on every single node, and cost gas).

We'll cover setting up web3.js with your own node later. But for now the big takeaway is that you can optimize your DApp's gas usage for your users by using read-only external view functions wherever possible.

Note: If a view function is called internally from another function in the same contract that is not a view function, it will still cost gas. This is because the other function creates a transaction on Ethereum, and will still need to be verified from every node. So view functions are only free when they're called externally.


---------------------------

Storage is Expensive

One of the more expensive operations in Solidity is using storage — particularly writes.

This is because every time you write or change a piece of data, it’s written permanently to the blockchain. Forever! Thousands of nodes across the world need to store that data on their hard drives, and this amount of data keeps growing over time as the blockchain grows. So there's a cost to doing that.

In order to keep costs down, you want to avoid writing data to storage except when absolutely necessary. Sometimes this involves seemingly inefficient programming logic — like rebuilding an array in memory every time a function is called instead of simply saving that array in a variable for quick lookups.

In most programming languages, looping over large data sets is expensive. But in Solidity, this is way cheaper than using storage if it's in an external view function, since view functions don't cost your users any gas. (And gas costs your users real money!).

We'll go over for loops in the next chapter, but first, let's go over how to declare arrays in memory.

Declaring arrays in memory
You can use the memory keyword with arrays to create a new array inside a function without needing to write anything to storage. The array will only exist until the end of the function call, and this is a lot cheaper gas-wise than updating an array in storage — free if it's a view function called externally.

Here's how to declare an array in memory:

function getArray() external pure returns(uint[] memory) {
  // Instantiate a new array in memory with a length of 3
  uint[] memory values = new uint[](3);

  // Put some values to it
  values[0] = 1;
  values[1] = 2;
  values[2] = 3;

  return values;
}

Note: memory arrays must be created with a length argument (in this example, 3). They currently cannot be resized like storage arrays can with array.push(), although this may be changed in a future version of Solidity.

----------------------


*********************Level 4 Zombie Battle System *************************

in this level we are going to learn about payble functions and how to build DApps that can accept money from players.


The payable Modifier
payable functions are part of what makes Solidity and Ethereum so cool — they are a special type of function that can receive Ether.

Let that sink in for a minute. When you call an API function on a normal web server, you can't send US dollars along with your function call — nor can you send Bitcoin.

But in Ethereum, because the money (Ether), the data (transaction payload), and the contract code itself all live on Ethereum, it's possible for you to call a function and pay money to the contract at the same time.

This allows for some really interesting logic, like requiring a certain payment to the contract in order to execute a function.

example
contract OnlineStore {
  function buySomething() external payable {
    // Check to make sure 0.001 ether was sent to the function call:
    require(msg.value == 0.001 ether);
    // If so, some logic to transfer the digital item to the caller of the function:
    transferThing(msg.sender);
  }
}

Note: If a function is not marked payable and you try to send Ether to it as above, the function will reject your transaction.

----------
Withdraw ether from the contract 

In the previous chapter, we learned how to send Ether to a contract. So what happens after you send it?

After you send Ether to a contract, it gets stored in the contract's Ethereum account, and it will be trapped there — unless you add a function to withdraw the Ether from the contract.

You can write a function to withdraw Ether from the contract as follows:

contract GetPaid is Ownable {
  function withdraw() external onlyOwner {
    address payable _owner = address(uint160(owner()));
    _owner.transfer(address(this).balance);
  }
}

Note that we're using owner() and onlyOwner from the Ownable contract, assuming that was imported.

It is important to note that you cannot transfer Ether to an address unless that address is of type address payable. But the _owner variable is of type uint160, meaning that we must explicitly cast it to address payable.

Once you cast the address from uint160 to address payable, you can transfer Ether to that address using the transfer function, and address(this).balance will return the total balance stored on the contract. So if 100 users had paid 1 Ether to our contract, address(this).balance would equal 100 Ether.

You can use transfer to send funds to any Ethereum address. For example, you could have a function that transfers Ether back to the msg.sender if they overpaid for an item:

uint itemFee = 0.001 ether;
msg.sender.transfer(msg.value - itemFee);


Or in a contract with a buyer and a seller, you could save the seller's address in storage, then when someone purchases his item, transfer him the fee paid by the buyer: seller.transfer(msg.value).

These are some examples of what makes Ethereum programming really cool — you can have decentralized marketplaces like this that aren't controlled by anyone.

-------------------------


Random Numbers 

All good games require some level of randomness. So how do we generate random numbers in Solidity?

The real answer here is, you can't. Well, at least you can't do it safely.

Let's look at why.

Random number generation via keccak256
The best source of randomness we have in Solidity is the keccak256 hash function.

We could do something like the following to generate a random number:

// Generate a random number between 1 and 100:
uint randNonce = 0;
uint random = uint(keccak256(abi.encodePacked(now, msg.sender, randNonce))) % 100;
randNonce++;
uint random2 = uint(keccak256(abi.encodePacked(now, msg.sender, randNonce))) % 100;
What this would do is take the timestamp of now, the msg.sender, and an incrementing nonce (a number that is only ever used once, so we don't run the same hash function with the same input parameters twice).

It would then "pack" the inputs and use keccak to convert them to a random hash. Next, it would convert that hash to a uint, and then use % 100 to take only the last 2 digits. This will give us a totally random number between 0 and 99.

This method is vulnerable to attack by a dishonest node
In Ethereum, when you call a function on a contract, you broadcast it to a node or nodes on the network as a transaction. The nodes on the network then collect a bunch of transactions, try to be the first to solve a computationally-intensive mathematical problem as a "Proof of Work", and then publish that group of transactions along with their Proof of Work (PoW) as a block to the rest of the network.

Once a node has solved the PoW, the other nodes stop trying to solve the PoW, verify that the other node's list of transactions are valid, and then accept the block and move on to trying to solve the next block.

This makes our random number function exploitable.

Let's say we had a coin flip contract — heads you double your money, tails you lose everything. Let's say it used the above random function to determine heads or tails. (random >= 50 is heads, random < 50 is tails).

If I were running a node, I could publish a transaction only to my own node and not share it. I could then run the coin flip function to see if I won — and if I lost, choose not to include that transaction in the next block I'm solving. I could keep doing this indefinitely until I finally won the coin flip and solved the next block, and profit.

So how do we generate random numbers safely in Ethereum?
Because the entire contents of the blockchain are visible to all participants, this is a hard problem, and its solution is beyond the scope of this tutorial. You can read this StackOverflow thread for some ideas. One idea would be to use an oracle to access a random number function from outside of the Ethereum blockchain.

Of course, since tens of thousands of Ethereum nodes on the network are competing to solve the next block, my odds of solving the next block are extremely low. It would take me a lot of time or computing resources to exploit this profitably — but if the reward were high enough (like if I could bet $100,000,000 on the coin flip function), it would be worth it for me to attack.

So while this random number generation is NOT secure on Ethereum, in practice unless our random function has a lot of money on the line, the users of your game likely won't have enough resources to attack it.

Because we're just building a simple game for demo purposes in this tutorial and there's no real money on the line, we're going to accept the tradeoffs of using a random number generator that is simple to implement, knowing that it isn't totally secure.

In a future lesson, we may cover using oracles (a secure way to pull data in from outside of Ethereum) to generate secure random numbers from outside the blockchain.


************************* Level 5 ******************************
Need revision

ERC721 & Crypto-Collectibles

we will learn about tokens, the ERC721 standard, and crypto-collectible assets.

Tokens on Ethereum

If you've been in the Ethereum space for any amount of time, you've probably heard people talking about tokens — specifically ERC20 tokens.

A token on Ethereum is basically just a smart contract that follows some common rules — namely it implements a standard set of functions that all other token contracts share, such as transferFrom(address _from, address _to, uint256 _amount) and balanceOf(address _owner).

Internally the smart contract usually has a mapping, mapping(address => uint256) balances, that keeps track of how much balance each address has.

So basically a token is just a contract that keeps track of who owns how much of that token, and some functions so those users can transfer their tokens to other addresses.

Why does it matter?
Since all ERC20 tokens share the same set of functions with the same names, they can all be interacted with in the same ways.

This means if you build an application that is capable of interacting with one ERC20 token, it's also capable of interacting with any ERC20 token. That way more tokens can easily be added to your app in the future without needing to be custom coded. You could simply plug in the new token contract address, and boom, your app has another token it can use.

One example of this would be an exchange. When an exchange adds a new ERC20 token, really it just needs to add another smart contract it talks to. Users can tell that contract to send tokens to the exchange's wallet address, and the exchange can tell the contract to send the tokens back out to users when they request a withdraw.

The exchange only needs to implement this transfer logic once, then when it wants to add a new ERC20 token, it's simply a matter of adding the new contract address to its database.

Other token standards
ERC20 tokens are really cool for tokens that act like currencies. But they're not particularly useful for representing zombies in our zombie game.

For one, zombies aren't divisible like currencies — I can send you 0.237 ETH, but transfering you 0.237 of a zombie doesn't really make sense.

Secondly, all zombies are not created equal. Your Level 2 zombie "Steve" is totally not equal to my Level 732 zombie "H4XF13LD MORRIS 💯💯😎💯💯". (Not even close, Steve).

There's another token standard that's a much better fit for crypto-collectibles like CryptoZombies — and they're called ERC721 tokens.

ERC721 tokens are not interchangeable since each one is assumed to be unique, and are not divisible. You can only trade them in whole units, and each one has a unique ID. So these are a perfect fit for making our zombies tradeable.

Note that using a standard like ERC721 has the benefit that we don't have to implement the auction or escrow logic within our contract that determines how players can trade / sell our zombies. If we conform to the spec, someone else could build an exchange platform for crypto-tradable ERC721 assets, and our ERC721 zombies would be usable on that platform. So there are clear benefits to using a token standard instead of rolling your own trading logic.

---------------


Let's take a look at the ERC721 standard:

contract ERC721 {
  event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 indexed _tokenId);
  event Approval(address indexed _owner, address indexed _approved, uint256 indexed _tokenId);

  function balanceOf(address _owner) external view returns (uint256);
  function ownerOf(uint256 _tokenId) external view returns (address);
  function transferFrom(address _from, address _to, uint256 _tokenId) external payable;
  function approve(address _approved, uint256 _tokenId) external payable;
}

----------------

Preventing Overflows

Contract security enhancements: Overflows and Underflows
We're going to look at one major security feature you should be aware of when writing smart contracts: Preventing overflows and underflows.

What's an overflow?

Let's say we have a uint8, which can only have 8 bits. That means the largest number we can store is binary 11111111 (or in decimal, 2^8 - 1 = 255).

Take a look at the following code. What is number equal to at the end?

uint8 number = 255;
number++;
In this case, we've caused it to overflow — so number is counterintuitively now equal to 0 even though we increased it. (If you add 1 to binary 11111111, it resets back to 00000000, like a clock going from 23:59 to 00:00).

An underflow is similar, where if you subtract 1 from a uint8 that equals 0, it will now equal 255 (because uints are unsigned, and cannot be negative).

While we're not using uint8 here, and it seems unlikely that a uint256 will overflow when incrementing by 1 each time (2^256 is a really big number), it's still good to put protections in our contract so that our DApp never has unexpected behavior in the future.

Using SafeMath
To prevent this, OpenZeppelin has created a library called SafeMath that prevents these issues by default.

But before we get into that... What's a library?

A library is a special type of contract in Solidity. One of the things it is useful for is to attach functions to native data types.

For example, with the SafeMath library, we'll use the syntax using SafeMath for uint256. The SafeMath library has 4 functions — add, sub, mul, and div. And now we can access these functions from uint256 as follows:

using SafeMath for uint256;

uint256 a = 5;
uint256 b = a.add(3); // 5 + 3 = 8
uint256 c = a.mul(2); // 5 * 2 = 10
We'll look at what these functions do in the next chapter, but for now let's add the SafeMath library to our contract.

-------------

Let's take a look at the code behind SafeMath:

library SafeMath {

  function mul(uint256 a, uint256 b) internal pure returns (uint256) {
    if (a == 0) {
      return 0;
    }
    uint256 c = a * b;
    assert(c / a == b);
    return c;
  }

  function div(uint256 a, uint256 b) internal pure returns (uint256) {
    // assert(b > 0); // Solidity automatically throws when dividing by 0
    uint256 c = a / b;
    // assert(a == b * c + a % b); // There is no case in which this doesn't hold
    return c;
  }

  function sub(uint256 a, uint256 b) internal pure returns (uint256) {
    assert(b <= a);
    return a - b;
  }

  function add(uint256 a, uint256 b) internal pure returns (uint256) {
    uint256 c = a + b;
    assert(c >= a);
    return c;
  }
}
First we have the library keyword — libraries are similar to contracts but with a few differences. For our purposes, libraries allow us to use the using keyword, which automatically tacks on all of the library's methods to another data type:

using SafeMath for uint;
// now we can use these methods on any uint
uint test = 2;
test = test.mul(3); // test now equals 6
test = test.add(5); // test now equals 11
Note that the mul and add functions each require 2 arguments, but when we declare using SafeMath for uint, the uint we call the function on (test) is automatically passed in as the first argument.

Let's look at the code behind add to see what SafeMath does:

function add(uint256 a, uint256 b) internal pure returns (uint256) {
  uint256 c = a + b;
  assert(c >= a);
  return c;
}
Basically add just adds 2 uints like +, but it also contains an assert statement to make sure the sum is greater than a. This protects us from overflows.

assert is similar to require, where it will throw an error if false. The difference between assert and require is that require will refund the user the rest of their gas when a function fails, whereas assert will not. So most of the time you want to use require in your code; assert is typically used when something has gone horribly wrong with the code (like a uint overflow).

So, simply put, SafeMath's add, sub, mul, and div are functions that do the basic 4 math operations, but throw an error if an overflow or underflow occurs.

Using SafeMath in our code.
To prevent overflows and underflows, we can look for places in our code where we use +, -, *, or /, and replace them with add, sub, mul, div.

Ex. Instead of doing:

myUint++;
We would do:

myUint = myUint.add(1);



********************************level 6 ****************************

Talking to Contracts

Web3.js will need 2 things to talk to your contract: its address and its ABI.

Contract Address
After you finish writing your smart contract, you will compile it and deploy it to Ethereum. We're going to cover deployment in the next lesson, but since that's quite a different process from writing code, we've decided to go out of order and cover Web3.js first.

After you deploy your contract, it gets a fixed address on Ethereum where it will live forever. If you recall from Lesson 2, the address of the CryptoKitties contract on Ethereum mainnet is 0x06012c8cf97BEaD5deAe237070F9587f8E7A266d.

You'll need to copy this address after deploying in order to talk to your smart contract.

Contract ABI
The other thing Web3.js will need to talk to your contract is its ABI.

ABI stands for Application Binary Interface. Basically it's a representation of your contracts' methods in JSON format that tells Web3.js how to format function calls in a way your contract will understand.

When you compile your contract to deploy to Ethereum (which we'll cover in Lesson 7), the Solidity compiler will give you the ABI, so you'll need to copy and save this in addition to the contract address.

Since we haven't covered deployment yet, for this lesson we've compiled the ABI for you and put it in a file named cryptozombies_abi.js, stored in variable called cryptoZombiesABI.

If we include cryptozombies_abi.js in our project, we'll be able to access the CryptoZombies ABI using that variable.

Instantiating a Web3.js Contract
Once you have your contract's address and ABI, you can instantiate it in Web3 as follows:

// Instantiate myContract
var myContract = new web3js.eth.Contract(myABI, myContractAddress);


------------------------------

Calling Contract Functions

Web3.js has two methods we will use to call functions on our contract: call and send.

Call
call is used for view and pure functions. It only runs on the local node, and won't create a transaction on the blockchain.

Review: view and pure functions are read-only and don't change state on the blockchain. They also don't cost any gas, and the user won't be prompted to sign a transaction with MetaMask.

Using Web3.js, you would call a function named myMethod with the parameter 123 as follows:

myContract.methods.myMethod(123).call()
Send
send will create a transaction and change data on the blockchain. You'll need to use send for any functions that aren't view or pure.

Note: sending a transaction will require the user to pay gas, and will pop up their Metamask to prompt them to sign a transaction. When we use Metamask as our web3 provider, this all happens automatically when we call send(), and we don't need to do anything special in our code. Pretty cool!

Using Web3.js, you would send a transaction calling a function named myMethod with the parameter 123 as follows:

myContract.methods.myMethod(123).send()
The syntax is almost identical to call().

Getting Zombie Data
Now let's look at a real example of using call to access data on our contract.

Recall that we made our array of zombies public:

Zombie[] public zombies;
In Solidity, when you declare a variable public, it automatically creates a public "getter" function with the same name. So if you wanted to look up the zombie with id 15, you would call it as if it were a function: zombies(15).

Here's how we would write a JavaScript function in our front-end that would take a zombie id, query our contract for that zombie, and return the result:

Note: All the code examples we're using in this lesson are using version 1.0 of Web3.js, which uses promises instead of callbacks. Many other tutorials you'll see online are using an older version of Web3.js. The syntax changed a lot with version 1.0, so if you're copying code from other tutorials, make sure they're using the same version as you!

function getZombieDetails(id) {
  return cryptoZombies.methods.zombies(id).call()
}

// Call the function and do something with the result:
getZombieDetails(15)
.then(function(result) {
  console.log("Zombie 15: " + JSON.stringify(result));
});
Let's walk through what's happening here.

cryptoZombies.methods.zombies(id).call() will communicate with the Web3 provider node and tell it to return the zombie with index id from Zombie[] public zombies on our contract.

Note that this is asynchronous, like an API call to an external server. So Web3 returns a promise here. (If you're not familiar with JavaScript promises... Time to do some additional homework before continuing!)

Once the promise resolves (which means we got an answer back from the web3 provider), our example code continues with the then statement, which logs result to the console.

result will be a JavaScript object that looks like this:

{
  "name": "H4XF13LD MORRIS'S COOLER OLDER BROTHER",
  "dna": "1337133713371337",
  "level": "9999",
  "readyTime": "1522498671",
  "winCount": "999999999",
  "lossCount": "0" // Obviously.
}
We could then have some front-end logic to parse this object and display it in a meaningful way on the front-end.

-----------------------------

Metamask & Accounts


Getting the user's account in MetaMask
MetaMask allows the user to manage multiple accounts in their extension.

We can see which account is currently active on the injected web3 variable via:

var userAccount = web3.eth.accounts[0]
Because the user can switch the active account at any time in MetaMask, our app needs to monitor this variable to see if it has changed and update the UI accordingly. For example, if the user's homepage displays their zombie army, when they change their account in MetaMask, we'll want to update the page to show the zombie army for the new account they've selected.

We can do that with a setInterval loop as follows:

var accountInterval = setInterval(function() {
  // Check if account has changed
  if (web3.eth.accounts[0] !== userAccount) {
    userAccount = web3.eth.accounts[0];
    // Call some function to update the UI with the new account
    updateInterface();
  }
}, 100);
What this does is check every 100 milliseconds to see if userAccount is still equal web3.eth.accounts[0] (i.e. does the user still have that account active). If not, it reassigns userAccount to the currently active account, and calls a function to update the display.


---------------------------

Displaying our Zombie Army

Displaying zombie data — a rough example
We've added an empty <div id="zombies"></div> to the body of our document, as well as an empty displayZombies function.

Recall that in the previous chapter we called displayZombies from inside startApp() with the result of a call to getZombiesByOwner. It will be passed an array of zombie IDs that looks something like:

[0, 13, 47]
Thus we'll want our displayZombies function to:

First clear the contents of the #zombies div, if there's anything already inside it. (This way if the user changes their active MetaMask account, it will clear their old zombie army before loading the new one).

Loop through each id, and for each one call getZombieDetails(id) to look up all the information for that zombie from our smart contract, then

Put the information about that zombie into an HTML template to format it for display, and append that template to the #zombies div.

Again, we're just using JQuery here, which doesn't have a templating engine by default, so this is going to be ugly. But here's a simple example of how we could output this data for each zombie:

// Look up zombie details from our contract. Returns a `zombie` object
getZombieDetails(id)
.then(function(zombie) {
  // Using ES6's "template literals" to inject variables into the HTML.
  // Append each one to our #zombies div
  $("#zombies").append(`<div class="zombie">
    <ul>
      <li>Name: ${zombie.name}</li>
      <li>DNA: ${zombie.dna}</li>
      <li>Level: ${zombie.level}</li>
      <li>Wins: ${zombie.winCount}</li>
      <li>Losses: ${zombie.lossCount}</li>
      <li>Ready Time: ${zombie.readyTime}</li>
    </ul>
  </div>`);
});
What about displaying the zombie sprites?
In the above example, we're simply displaying the DNA as a string. But in your DApp, you would want to convert this to images to display your zombie.

We did this by splitting up the DNA string into substrings, and having every 2 digits correspond to an image. Something like:

// Get an integer 1-7 that represents our zombie head:
var head = parseInt(zombie.dna.substring(0, 2)) % 7 + 1

// We have 7 head images with sequential filenames:
var headSrc = "../assets/zombieparts/head-" + head + ".png"
Each component is positioned with CSS using absolute positioning, to overlay it over the other images.


------------------------------------

Sending Transactions

Now let's look at using send functions to change data on our smart contract.

There are a few major differences from call functions:

sending a transaction requires a from address of who's calling the function (which becomes msg.sender in your Solidity code). We'll want this to be the user of our DApp, so MetaMask will pop up to prompt them to sign the transaction.

sending a transaction costs gas

There will be a significant delay from when the user sends a transaction and when that transaction actually takes effect on the blockchain. This is because we have to wait for the transaction to be included in a block, and the block time for Ethereum is on average 15 seconds. If there are a lot of pending transactions on Ethereum or if the user sends too low of a gas price, our transaction may have to wait several blocks to get included, and this could take minutes.

Thus we'll need logic in our app to handle the asynchronous nature of this code.

Creating zombies
Let's look at an example with the first function in our contract a new user will call: createRandomZombie.

As a review, here is the Solidity code in our contract:

function createRandomZombie(string _name) public {
  require(ownerZombieCount[msg.sender] == 0);
  uint randDna = _generateRandomDna(_name);
  randDna = randDna - randDna % 100;
  _createZombie(_name, randDna);
}
Here's an example of how we could call this function in Web3.js using MetaMask:

function createRandomZombie(name) {
  // This is going to take a while, so update the UI to let the user know
  // the transaction has been sent
  $("#txStatus").text("Creating new zombie on the blockchain. This may take a while...");
  // Send the tx to our contract:
  return cryptoZombies.methods.createRandomZombie(name)
  .send({ from: userAccount })
  .on("receipt", function(receipt) {
    $("#txStatus").text("Successfully created " + name + "!");
    // Transaction was accepted into the blockchain, let's redraw the UI
    getZombiesByOwner(userAccount).then(displayZombies);
  })
  .on("error", function(error) {
    // Do something to alert the user their transaction has failed
    $("#txStatus").text(error);
  });
}
Our function sends a transaction to our Web3 provider, and chains some event listeners:

receipt will fire when the transaction is included into a block on Ethereum, which means our zombie has been created and saved on our contract
error will fire if there's an issue that prevented the transaction from being included in a block, such as the user not sending enough gas. We'll want to inform the user in our UI that the transaction didn't go through so they can try again.
Note: You can optionally specify gas and gasPrice when you call send, e.g. .send({ from: userAccount, gas: 3000000 }). If you don't specify this, MetaMask will let the user choose these values.

---------------------------------

Calling Payable Functions

The logic for attack, changeName, and changeDna will be extremely similar, so they're trivial to implement and we won't spend time coding them in this lesson.

In fact, there's already a lot of repetitive logic in each of these function calls, so it would probably make sense to refactor and put the common code in its own function. (And use a templating system for the txStatus messages — already we're seeing how much cleaner things would be with a framework like Vue.js!)

Let's look at another type of function that requires special treatment in Web3.js — payable functions.

Level Up!
Recall in ZombieHelper, we added a payable function where the user can level up:

function levelUp(uint _zombieId) external payable {
  require(msg.value == levelUpFee);
  zombies[_zombieId].level++;
}
The way to send Ether along with a function is simple, with one caveat: we need to specify how much to send in wei, not Ether.

What's a Wei?
A wei is the smallest sub-unit of Ether — there are 10^18 wei in one ether.

That's a lot of zeroes to count — but luckily Web3.js has a conversion utility that does this for us.

// This will convert 1 ETH to Wei
web3js.utils.toWei("1");
In our DApp, we set levelUpFee = 0.001 ether, so when we call our levelUp function, we can make the user send 0.001 Ether along with it using the following code:

cryptoZombies.methods.levelUp(zombieId)
.send({ from: userAccount, value: web3js.utils.toWei("0.001", "ether") })

--------------------------------

Subscribing to Events

As you can see, interacting with your contract via Web3.js is pretty straightforward — once you have your environment set up, calling functions and sending transactions is not all that different from a normal web API.

There's one more aspect we want to cover — subscribing to events from your contract.

Listening for New Zombies
If you recall from zombiefactory.sol, we had an event called NewZombie that we fired every time a new zombie was created:

event NewZombie(uint zombieId, string name, uint dna);
In Web3.js, you can subscribe to an event so your web3 provider triggers some logic in your code every time it fires:

cryptoZombies.events.NewZombie()
.on("data", function(event) {
  let zombie = event.returnValues;
  // We can access this event's 3 return values on the `event.returnValues` object:
  console.log("A new zombie was born!", zombie.zombieId, zombie.name, zombie.dna);
}).on("error", console.error);
Note that this would trigger an alert every time ANY zombie was created in our DApp — not just for the current user. What if we only wanted alerts for the current user?

Using indexed
In order to filter events and only listen for changes related to the current user, our Solidity contract would have to use the indexed keyword, like we did in the Transfer event of our ERC721 implementation:

event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _tokenId);
In this case, because _from and _to are indexed, that means we can filter for them in our event listener in our front end:

// Use `filter` to only fire this code when `_to` equals `userAccount`
cryptoZombies.events.Transfer({ filter: { _to: userAccount } })
.on("data", function(event) {
  let data = event.returnValues;
  // The current user just received a zombie!
  // Do something here to update the UI to show it
}).on("error", console.error);
As you can see, using events and indexed fields can be quite a useful practice for listening to changes to your contract and reflecting them in your app's front-end.

Querying past events
We can even query past events using getPastEvents, and use the filters fromBlock and toBlock to give Solidity a time range for the event logs ("block" in this case referring to the Ethereum block number):

cryptoZombies.getPastEvents("NewZombie", { fromBlock: 0, toBlock: "latest" })
.then(function(events) {
  // `events` is an array of `event` objects that we can iterate, like we did above
  // This code will get us a list of every zombie that was ever created
});
Because you can use this method to query the event logs since the beginning of time, this presents an interesting use case: Using events as a cheaper form of storage.

If you recall, saving data to the blockchain is one of the most expensive operations in Solidity. But using events is much much cheaper in terms of gas.

The tradeoff here is that events are not readable from inside the smart contract itself. But it's an important use-case to keep in mind if you have some data you want to be historically recorded on the blockchain so you can read it from your app's front-end.

For example, we could use this as a historical record of zombie battles — we could create an event for every time one zombie attacks another and who won. The smart contract doesn't need this data to calculate any future outcomes, but it's useful data for users to be able to browse from the app's front-end.

-----------------------
Note: Even though our smart contract is decentralized, this front-end for interacting with our DApp would be totally centralized on our web-server somewhere.

However, with the SDK we're building at Loom Network, soon you'll be able to serve front-ends like this from their own DAppChain instead of a centralized web server. That way between Ethereum and the Loom DAppChain, your entire app would run 100% on the blockchain.






